# 8. Moving Feature

댜형성과 관련된 리팩토링

책을 읽는 법이 이제서야 조금 습득한 것 같다. 개인적으로

1. 배경 Motivation을 읽고 이 리팩토링 기법을 어떤 상황에서 사용하는지 학습한다.
2. 예제를 작성한다. 가능하면 테스트 코드를 추가한다.
3. 나중에 정리하면서 예제를 떠올리면서 절차 Mechanics의 일반적인 순서를 학습한다. (먼저 아무리 설명만 읽어도 이해가 안되는 경우가 많았다. 하지만 예제를 떠올리면서 읽으니 고개가 끄덕여졌다.)

여기에 남은 과제로 자주 사용하는 IntelliJ IDE 단축키 활용 또는 AI 도구 활용은 별도로 학습해야 할 것 같다. 설마 자동으로 적절한 리팩토링을 추천하고 해주는 AI 제품이 곧 출시되는 것은 아니겠지?
사실 그간 1-2년 사이의 Copilot 이나 ChatGPT의 코드 작성 능력 향상을 보고 솔직히 겁이 난다.

- _Move Function_: Move functions between classes and other modules.
- _Move Field_: Fields can move too.
- _Move Statements into Function_: Move statements into a function.
- _Move Statements to Callers_: Move statements out of a function.
- _Slide Statements_: Move statements within a function.
- _Split Loop_: Ensure a loop does only one thing.
- _Replace Loop with Pipeline_: Get rid of a loop.
- _Remove Dead Code_: Digital flamethrower to superfluous statements.

## Move Function

### Motivation

### Mechanics

1. Examine all the program elements used by the chosen function in its current context. Consider whether they should
   move too.
2. Check if the chosen function is a polymorphic method.

## Move Field

### Motivation

If I have a good set of data structures that match the problem, then my behavior code is simple and straightforward.

So, data structure are important-but like most aspects of programming they are hard to get right. In the process of
programming, I learn more about the problem domain and my data structure.

### Mechanics

1. Ensure the source field is encapsulated.
2. Test.
3. Create a field (and accessors) in the target.
4. Run static checks.
5. Ensure there is a reference from the source object to the target object.
6. Adjust accessors to use the target field.
7. Test.
8. Remove the source field.
9. Test.

## Move Statements into Function

### Motivation

Removing duplication is one of the best rules of thumb of healthy code. If I see the same code executed every time I
call a particular function, I look to combine that repeating code into the function itself.

I move statements into a function when I can best understand these statements as part of the called function.

### Mechanics

1. If the repetitive code isn't adjacent to the call of the target function, use _Slide Statements_ to get it adjacent.
2. If the target function is only called by the source function, just cut the code from the source, paste it into the
   target, test, and ignore the rest of these mechanics.
3. If you have more callers, use _Extract Function_ on one of the call sites to extract both the call to the target
   function and the statements you wish to move into it. Give it a name that's transient, but easy to grep.
4. Convert every other call to use the new function. Test after each conversion.
5. When all the original calls use the new function, use _Inline Function_ to inline the original function completely
   into the new function, removing the original function.
6. _Rename Function_ to change the name of the new function to the same name as the original function.

## Move Statements to Callers

### Motivation

As a code base changes its capabilities, we often find our abstraction boundaries shift.

When common behavior used in several places needs to vary in some of its calls, we need to move the varying behavior out
of the function to its callers.

### Mechanics

1. In simple circumstances, just cut the first line from the called function and paste it into the callers. Test and
   you're done.
2. Otherwise, apply _Extract Function_ to all the statements that you _don't_ wish to move; give it a temporary but
   easily searchable name.
3. Use _Inline Function_ on the original function.
4. Apply _Change Function Declaration_ on the extracted function to rename it to the original name.

## Replace Inline Code with Function Call

### Motivation

If I see inline code that's doing the same thing that I have in an existing function, I'll usually want to replace that
inline code with a function call.

### Mechanics

1. Replace the inline code with a call to the existing function.
2. Test.

## Slide Statements

### Motivation

Code is easier to understand when things that are related to each other appear together.

Usually, I move related code together as a preparatory step for another refactoring, often an _Extract Function_.

### Mechanics

- Identify the target position to move the fragment to. Examine statements between source and target to see if there is
  interference for the candidate fragment. Abandon action if there is any interference.
- Cut the fragment from the source and paste into the target position.
- Test.

If the test fails, try breaking down the slide into smaller steps. Either slide over less code or reduce the amount of
code in the fragment you're moving.

## Split Loop

### Motivation

If you're doing two different things in the same loop, then whenever you need to modify the loop you have to understand
both things.

Splitting a loop can also make it easier to use.

As for executing the loop twice, recall separate refactoring from optimization.

### Mechanics

1. Copy the loop.
2. Identify and eliminate duplicate side effects.
3. Test.

When done, consider _Extract Function_ on each loop.

## Replace Loop with Pipeline

### Motivation

Language environments provide a better construct than using a loop to iterate over a collection of objects: the
collection pipeline.

[Collection Pipelines](https://martinfowler.com/articles/collection-pipeline) allows me to describe my processing as a
series of operations, each consuming and emitting a collection.

- _map_: uses a function to transform each element of the input collection.
- _filter_: uses a function to select a subset of the input collection for later steps in the pipeline.

### Mechanics

1. Create a new variable for the loop's collection.

- May be simple copy of existing variable.

2. Starting at the top, take each bit of behavior in the loop and replace it with a collection pipeline operation in the
   derivation of the loop collection variable. Test after each change.
3. Once all behavior is removed from the loop, remove it.

- If it assigns to an accumulator, assign the pipeline result to the accumulator.

## Remove Dead Code

### Motivation

Once code isn't used anymore, delete it. Have version control system so that I can dig it out again.

### Mechanics

1. If the dead code can be referenced from outside, do a search to check for callers.
2. Remove the dead code.
3. Test.

