# 9. Organizing Data

Use _Split Variable_ to separate the usages of a variable for different purposes.

_Rename Variable_ to get a variable's name right.

Get rid of a variable completely with _Replace Derived Variable with Query_.

Use

- _Change Reference to Value_
- _Change Value to Reference_

to change between reference and value.

## 9.1 Split Variable

### Motivation

Any variable with more than one responsibility should be replaced with multiple variables.

### Mechanics

- Change the name of the variable at its declaration and first assignment.
- If possible, declare the new variables as immutable.
- Change all references of the variable up to its second assignment.
- Test.
- Repeat in stages, at each stage renaming the variable at the declaration and changing references until the next
  assignment, until you reach the final assignment.≠

## 9.2 Rename Field

### Motivation

You may want to rename a field in a record structure. Getter and setter methods form an effective field for users of the
class. Renaming them is just as important as with bare record structures.

### Mechanics

- If the record has limited scope, rename all accesses to the field and test; no need to do the rest of the mechanics.
- If the record isn't already encapsulated, apply _Encapsulate Record_.
- Rename the private field inside the object, adjust internal methods to fit.
- Test.
- If the constructor uses the name, apply _Change Function Declaration_ to rename it.
- Apply _Rename Function_ to the accessors.

## 9.3 Replace Derived Variable with Query

### Motivation

One of the biggest sources of problems in software is mutable data. Data changes can often couple together parts of code
in awkward ways.

Remove any variable that could be just as easily be calculated.

### Mechanics

- Identify all points of update for the variable. If necessary, use _Split Variable_ to separate each point of update.
- Create a function that calculates the value of the variable.
- Use _Introduce Assertion_ to assert that the variable and the calculation give the same result whenever the variable
  is used.
  - If necessary, use _Encapsulate Record_ to provide a home for the assertion.
- Test.
- Replace any reader of the variable with a call to the new function.
- Test.
- Apply _Remove Dead Code_ to the declaration and updates to the variable.

## 9.4 Change Reference to Value

### Motivation

If I treat a field as a value, I can change the class of the inner object to make it
a [Value Object](https://martinfowler.com/bliki/ValueObject.html).

### Mechanics

- Check that the candidate class is immutable or can become immutable.
- For each setter, apply _Remove Setting Method_.
- Provide a value-based equality method that uses the fields of the value object.

## 9.5 Change Value to Reference

### Motivation

### Mechanics

## 9.6 Replace Magic Literal

### Motivation

Magic literals are common literal values that appear in the source code.

Usually, the best thing to do is replace the value with a constant named after its meaning.

### Mechanics

- Declare a constant and set it to the magic literal.
- Search for all appearances of the literal.
- For each, see if its use matches the meaning of the new constant. If so, replace it with the new constant and test.

Once done, a good way to check is to change the value of the constant and see if the tests fully reflect this change.
