# 10. Simplifying Conditional Logic

_Introduce Special Case_ 경우 자바로 씌여진 1판을 참고했다.

_Replace Nested Conditional with Guard Clauses_는 Thoughtworks Anthology의 Object Calisthenics, "2. Don’t use the else
keyword."을 따르면 저절로 해결될 것 같은 느낌이다.

_Replace Conditional with Polymorphism_ 흔히 상속보다는 조합을 선호하라는 말이 있는데...

_Introduce Assertion_: TigerBeetle이라는 financial transaction database 코드베이스에서는 assertion으로 시스템의 신뢰성을 추구한다고 들었던 것
같다. 복식부기 원장 시스템 [pgledger](https://www.pgrs.net/2025/03/24/pgledger-ledger-implementation-in-postgresql/)

Apply _Decompose Conditional_ to complicated conditionals, and use _Consolidate Conditional Expression_ to make logical
combinations clearer. _Replace Nested Conditional with Guard Clauses_ to clarify cases where I want to run some
pre-checks before my main processing. If I see several conditions using the same switching logic, _Replace Conditional
with Polymorphism_.

A lot of conditionals are used to handle special cases, such as null; _Introduce Special Case_ can remove a lot of
duplicate code. To remove conditions, but communicate (and check) a program's state, _Introduce Assertion_.

Finally, _Replace Control Flag with Break_ can simplify loops with control flags.

## 10.1 Decompose Conditional

### Motivation

One of the most common sources of complexity in a program is complex conditional logic.

I can make my intention clearer by decomposing it and replacing each chink of code with a function call named after the
intention of that chunk.

### Mechanics

- Apply _Extract Function_ on the condition and each leg of the conditional.

## 10.2 Consolidate Conditional Expression

### Motivation

Sometimes, I run into a series of conditional checks where each check is different yet the resulting action is the same.
When I see this, I use _and_ and _or_ operators to consolidate them into a single conditional check with a single
result.

### Mechanics

- Ensure that none of the conditionals have any side effects.
  - if any do, use _Separate Query from Modifier_ on them first.
- Take two of the conditional statements and combine their conditions using a logical operator.
- Test.
- Repeat combining conditionals until they are all in a single condition.
- Consider using _Extract Function_ on the resulting condition.

## 10.3 Replace Nested Conditional with Guard Clauses

### Motivation

I often find that conditional expressions come in two styles: both legs of the conditional are part of normal behavior,
while in the second style, one leg is normal and the other indicates an unusual condition.

If the condition is an unusual condition, I check the condition and return if it's true. This kind of check is often
called a __guard clause__.

### Mechanics

- Select outermost condition that needs to be replaced, and change it into a guard clause.
- Test.
- Repeat as needed.
- If all the guard clauses return the same result, use _Consolidate Conditional Expression_.

## 10.4 Replace Conditional with Polymorphism

### Motivation

Complex conditional logic is one of the hardest things to reason about in programming. Often, I find I can separate the
logic into different circumstance--high-level cases--to divide the conditions. Sometimes it's enough to represent this
division within the structure of a conditional itself, but using classes and polymorphism can make the separation more
explicit.

### Mechanics

- If classes do not exist for polymorphic behavior, create them together with a factory function to return the correct
  instance.
- Use the factory function in calling code.
- Move the conditional function to the superclass.
  - if the conditional logic is not a self-contained function, use _Extract Function_ to make it so.
- Pick one of the subclasses. Create a subclass method that overrides the conditional statement method. Copy the body of
  that leg of the conditional statement into the subclass method and adjust it to fit.
- Repeat for each leg of the conditional.
- Leave a default case for the superclass method. Or, if superclass should be abstract, declare that method as abstract
  or throw an error to show it should be the responsibility of a subclass.

## 10.5 Introduce Special Case

### Motivation

### Mechanics

## 10.6 Introduce Assertion

### Motivation

Often, sections of code work only if certain conditions are true.

Such assumptions are often not stated but can only be deduced by looking through an algorithm. Sometimes, the
assumptions are stated with a comment. A better technique is to make the assumption explicit by writing an assertion.

### Mechanics

- When you see that a condition is assumed to be true, add an assertion to state it.

Since assertions should not affect the running of a system, adding one is always behavior-preserving.

## 10.7 Replace Control Flag with Break

### Motivation

### Mechanics
